hello everyone in this video we are
going to present our paper walk in the
cloud learning curves for point cloud
shape analysis
in the first part of this video we
demonstrate an overview of the proposed
approach and discuss why existing
methods cannot suffice and hence our
method as desired
then we present formal definitions of
the proposed terminologies and brief
workflows of our algorithms
finally we wrap it up by demonstrating
the superiority of our method on three
fundamental tasks with further analysis
3d vision tasks are one of the most
active tasks in the computer vision
community
in the recent years many efforts have
been made for analyzing all kinds of 3d
visual signals especially point clouds
differing from conventional 2d vision
tasks point clouds are usually in
irregular and unordered forms hence the
effective designs of feature aggregation
and message passing schemes among point
clouds still remains challenging
existing feature aggregation operators
could be roughly classified into three
categories
in this paper we proposed a new paradigm
for point cloud feature aggregation
namely curve aggregation that first
groups a continuous set of connected
points to form a curve and then
aggregate the grouped curve features
back to each point
but why existing local feature
extractors cannot capture good geometric
patterns
let us first have a closed look at the
local aggregation paradigm
although such formulation is intuitive
and efficient we argue that seeing only
locally located points can't model good
object geometric traits which require
relation modeling in a longer range
let us consider a simple 2d point cloud
plane as an example
point a b
c are three key points and the blue
points are their k n neighbors
obviously point a and b will have almost
identical encodings if using local
aggregations
only the points that are in extreme
geometric positions such as point c are
able to encode different features given
such observations we claim that local
feature aggregation based neural
networks are likely to have very similar
point features especially at shallow
layers
here we visualize feature maps of a
chair object extracted by dgcnn and
found that the chairs back and seat
indeed have very closed features
regardless of pooling scheme
so what is a curve exactly
generally speaking a curve is an ordered
connection of adjacent points that can
be grouped through a given walk policy
consider the previous example again a
possible curve could span over all point
a b and c that carries much longer range
information
we now present the strategy to group
curves in the semantic space of any
given point clouds
here are the four parameters and
functions that need to be defined in
advance before we can articulate the
naive curve grouping
process however there are several major
flaws in the naive working flow
consider that for any deterministic walk
policy when the input signals are fixed
the output will always be the same
such that in its current form if we
visit a same node multiple times the
walk policy will always transit to the
same point
this causes loops that carry repeated
and very limited information for each
curve and therefore should be avoided
to achieve this we consider not only the
point features itself during the walk
but also a curve descriptor that encodes
the overall curve progress
in our experiments we used a simple
dynamic momentum paradigm to encode the
curve progress
after the grouping completes our
proposed curve aggregation module then
maps the grouped curves back to enrich
all point features with the encoded
geometric information
we then embed our curve grouping module
and curve aggregation module into a
simple resnet style network referred to
as curvenet
the network architecture is outlined as
below and more details can be also found
in our main paper and supplementary
material
our proposed method was benchmarked on
three most fundamental point cloud shape
analysis tasks
our curve net achieves state-of-the-art
results on all three tasks with and
without using the voting strategy
finally here comes our conclusion
in this paper we proposed a novel
feature aggregation paradigm for point
cloud shape analysis
curves are grouped and aggregated for
better depiction of point cloud object
geometries
we studied potential drawbacks during
curve grouping and provide solutions to
avoid loops and suppress crossovers
our curve net achieves state-of-the-art
results on three fundamental point cloud
object analysis tasks